BRANCH_PROTECTION.md, before:

# Настройка защиты веток на GitHub

## Быстрая настройка через Web UI

### 1. Откройте настройки репозитория
https://github.com/mtzvd/bulma-templ/settings/branches

### 2. Измените default branch на `develop`
- В разделе "Default branch" нажмите ↔️
- Выберите `develop`
- Подтвердите

### 3. Защита ветки `main`

Нажмите **Add rule** и настройте:

**Branch name pattern:** `main`

✅ **Require a pull request before merging**
   - Require approvals: 1
   - ✅ Dismiss stale pull request approvals when new commits are pushed

✅ **Require status checks to pass before merging**
   - ✅ Require branches to be up to date before merging
   - Search for status checks: `test`, `build`, `lint` (если есть CI/CD)

✅ **Require conversation resolution before merging**

✅ **Do not allow bypassing the above settings** (для админов тоже)

### 4. Защита ветки `staging`

Нажмите **Add rule** и настройте:

**Branch name pattern:** `staging`

✅ **Require a pull request before merging**

✅ **Require status checks to pass before merging** (опционально)
   - Search for status checks: `test`, `build`

### 5. Ветка `develop` (опционально)

Можно не защищать для быстрой разработки, или добавить минимальную защиту:

**Branch name pattern:** `develop`

✅ **Require status checks to pass before merging** (рекомендуется)

---

## Результат

После настройки:
- ❌ **Нельзя** делать прямой push в `main`
- ✅ **Только через Pull Request** с проверками
- ✅ **Безопасно** — случайный коммит в main невозможен
- ✅ **Code Review** — требуется одобрение перед merge

## Workflow после настройки

```bash
# Разработка (можно пушить напрямую)
git checkout develop
git commit -m "feat: Something"
git push origin develop

# Попытка запушить в main (будет отклонено)
git checkout main
git push origin main  # ❌ ERROR: protected branch

# Правильный способ: через PR
# 1. develop -> staging (можно через PR или merge)
# 2. staging -> main (ТОЛЬКО через PR)
```

Commit message:

docs: Translate Russian documentation to English
- Translate BRANCH_PROTECTION.md from Russian to English
- Translate GIT_WORKFLOW.md from Russian to English
- Ensure consistency with CONTRIBUTING.md and README.md
- Prevents Russian language files from being included in releases

BRANCH_PROTECTION.md, after:

# Branch Protection Setup on GitHub

## Quick Setup via Web UI

### 1. Open Repository Settings
https://github.com/mtzvd/bulma-templ/settings/branches

### 2. Change Default Branch to `develop`
- In "Default branch" section, click ↔️
- Select `develop`
- Confirm

### 3. Protect `main` Branch

Click **Add rule** and configure:

**Branch name pattern:** `main`

✅ **Require a pull request before merging**
   - Require approvals: 1
   - ✅ Dismiss stale pull request approvals when new commits are pushed

✅ **Require status checks to pass before merging**
   - ✅ Require branches to be up to date before merging
   - Search for status checks: `test`, `build`, `lint` (if CI/CD is configured)

✅ **Require conversation resolution before merging**

✅ **Do not allow bypassing the above settings** (applies to admins too)

### 4. Protect `staging` Branch

Click **Add rule** and configure:

**Branch name pattern:** `staging`

✅ **Require a pull request before merging**

✅ **Require status checks to pass before merging** (optional)
   - Search for status checks: `test`, `build`

### 5. `develop` Branch (Optional)

Can be left unprotected for faster development, or add minimal protection:

**Branch name pattern:** `develop`

✅ **Require status checks to pass before merging** (recommended)

---

## Result

After configuration:
- ❌ **Cannot** push directly to `main`
- ✅ **Only via Pull Request** with checks
- ✅ **Safe** — accidental commits to main are impossible
- ✅ **Code Review** — approval required before merge

## Workflow After Setup

```bash
# Development (can push directly)
git checkout develop
git commit -m "feat: Something"
git push origin develop

# Trying to push to main (will be rejected)
git checkout main
git push origin main  # ❌ ERROR: protected branch

# Correct way: via PR
# 1. develop -> staging (can be via PR or merge)
# 2. staging -> main (ONLY via PR)
```
